# Visualization as a diagnostic tool for estimands: A proof-of-concept and case study with pairwise matching of multiple treatments
Propensity score matching is among the most popular confounding adjustment methods for comparative effectiveness research in non-randomized settings. Although propensity score methods were originally introduced in the context of comparisons of two treatments, they are increasingly being used for multiple comparisons of more than two treatments. When pairwise matching is applied to estimate treatment effects for multiple pairs of treatments, the underlying target population changes across the comparisons. This is attributable to the differences in covariate distributions across treatment groups. Consequently, this results in different treatment effect interpretations for the different underlying populations across the multiple pairwise comparisons. The interpretation of treatment effect estimates in relation to the matching (i.e., the target estimand) is rarely clarified and consequently might lead to erroneous conclusions about real-world effectiveness of different treatments. Based on empirical research, we illustrate that multiple pairwise matching for the investigation of comparative effectiveness of more than two treatments can lead to targeting different estimands. We use a proof-of-concept simulation study and a case study in multiple sclerosis. We propose visualization tools to illustrate the problem and clarify the connection between estimand, target population and pairwise matching to avoid misinterpretations and treatment decision-making errors in clinical practice. 
